****************************************
The Scope of RCP Technical Documentation
****************************************

Technical documentation is an essential component of software development,
enabling developers, testers, and end-users to understand the software and its
functionality. But what exactly is the scope of technical documentation?

This document will define the scope for technical documentation as a reference
for RCP developers. And also via this clear definition, it can motivate our
developers to write more comprehensive documents for our products and services.

Types of technical documentation
################################

Quick start
***********

A quick start is a type of guide or tutorial that provides users with the basic
steps needed to get started with a particular software, product, or service.
Quick starts are often designed to be simple and easy to follow, allowing users
to quickly set up and begin using the software or service with minimal effort or
prior knowledge.

Quick starts typically cover topics such as installation, configuration, and
basic usage, and may include screenshots or videos to help illustrate the steps.
They are often included in the product documentation or available on the
company's website or online knowledge base.

Quick starts are especially helpful for new users who are unfamiliar with the
software or service, or for users who need to quickly set up the software for a
specific use case or project. By providing a quick and easy way to get started,
quick starts can help users save time and reduce frustration, while also
improving their overall experience with the software or service.

User guide / service guide
**************************

A user guide, also known as a user manual, is a type of document that provides
instructions and guidance on how to use a particular product or service. User
guides are typically created by the product manufacturer or service provider,
and are designed to help users understand and effectively use the product or
service.

User guides may include step-by-step instructions, screenshots, diagrams, and
other visuals to help illustrate key features and functions. They may also
include explanations of technical terms or concepts, as well as troubleshooting
tips and other resources to help users resolve issues or problems.

User guides are often organized into sections or chapters that cover different
aspects of the product or service, such as installation, configuration, and
usage. They may also be available in different formats, such as printed
booklets, PDFs, or online help systems.

Overall, user guides are an essential component of product documentation, and
play an important role in helping users get the most out of a product or
service, while also improving their overall experience and satisfaction.

API documentation
*****************

API documentation is a type of technical documentation that provides information
and guidance on how to use a particular application programming interface (API).
APIs are sets of protocols, routines, and tools for building software
applications, and API documentation explains how to interact with the API in
order to access its functionality.

API documentation typically includes information on the available functions,
methods, and parameters of the API, as well as details on how to authenticate
and authorize access to the API. It may also include sample code, error handling
guidelines, and other resources to help developers understand and use the API
effectively.

API documentation is important for both API providers and consumers. For API
providers, clear and comprehensive documentation can help attract developers and
encourage adoption of the API. For API consumers, good documentation can reduce
the learning curve and make it easier to integrate the API into their own
software applications

Open API
^^^^^^^^

OpenAPI documents, also known as OpenAPI specifications, are machine-readable
files that describe the functionality and structure of an API using the OpenAPI
standard. OpenAPI documents provide a detailed, structured overview of an API,
including information such as:

- Endpoints and operations:

The URL paths that the API supports, along with the HTTP methods (GET, POST,
PUT, DELETE, etc.) that are used to interact with them.

- Request and response formats:

The expected formats for request and response payloads, including data types,
headers, and media types.

- Authentication and authorization:

The methods and requirements for authenticating and authorizing API requests.

- Error handling:

The types of errors that may occur when using the API, along with their
corresponding HTTP status codes and error messages.
    
- Examples and usage scenarios:

Sample requests and responses that illustrate how to use the API in practice.

OpenAPI documents are typically written in YAML or JSON format, and can be used
to generate interactive API documentation, client libraries, and server code.
They can also be used to validate API requests and responses, and to test API
implementations for compliance with the OpenAPI specification.

Installation guide
******************

An installation guide is a type of technical documentation that provides
step-by-step instructions for installing and setting up a software application.
The purpose of an installation guide is to help users get the application up and
running quickly and efficiently, without encountering any errors or issues.

An installation guide typically includes the following information:

- System requirements:

Information about the hardware, software, and operating system needed to run the
application.

- Pre-installation steps:

Any necessary preparations or prerequisites that need to be completed before
installation.

- Installation instructions:

Detailed steps for installing the application, including any required
configuration or customization options.

- Post-installation steps: 

Additional steps that may need to be taken after the installation is complete,
such as registering the software or configuring security settings.

- Troubleshooting tips:

Common issues and solutions that may arise during installation, along with
resources for getting further assistance.

Configuration Guides
********************

A configuration guide is a type of technical documentation that provides
instructions for configuring and customizing a software application. The purpose
of a configuration guide is to help users tailor the application to their
specific needs and preferences, and to optimize its performance in their
environment.

A configuration guide typically includes the following information:

- Overview:

A brief description of the application and its key features.

- Configuration options:

An overview of the various settings and options that can be customized, and how
they impact the application's behavior.

- Configuration instructions:

Step-by-step instructions for configuring the application, including any
required changes to settings or configuration files.

- Best practices:
  
Tips and recommendations for configuring the application to achieve optimal
performance and functionality.

- Troubleshooting tips:

Common issues and solutions that may arise during configuration, along with
resources for getting further assistance.

Architecture documents
**********************

Architecture documents are a type of technical documentation that provide an
overview of the overall design and structure of a software application or
system. The purpose of architecture documents is to help stakeholders (such as
developers, architects, and project managers) understand the big picture of the
application or system, and how its components work together to achieve its
goals.

Architecture documents typically include the following information:

- Overview:

A high-level description of the application or system, including its purpose and
goals.

- Architecture overview: 

A visual representation of the application or system's components and their
relationships, such as diagrams or flowcharts.

- Component descriptions:

Detailed descriptions of each component of the application or system, including
its purpose, functionality, and interactions with other components.

- Data flow:

A description of how data moves through the application or system, including
inputs, outputs, and data storage.

- Technical specifications:

Technical details about the technologies and platforms used in the application
or system, such as programming languages, databases, and APIs.

**Note:** If this section apply to one RCP component or service, then the scope
of architecture document is only limited to that component or service, not RCP
architecture as whole. RCP component architecture should describe relationship
between upstream and downstream components and the structure of sub-components
as above description. For example architecture document for API-Gateway should
focuses on the relationship between WebEM, HTTPD, API-Gateway and RCP user
management service.

Design documents
****************

Design documents are a type of technical documentation that provide a detailed
description of the design and functionality of a software application or system.
The purpose of design documents is to guide developers and other stakeholders
through the development process, helping them understand the requirements,
design decisions, and implementation details of the application or system.

Design documents typically include the following information:

- User requirements: 

A description of the needs and expectations of the users of the application or
system.

- Use cases:

Scenarios or examples of how the application or system will be used in the real
world, including input and output data.

- Data design:

A description of the data structures and formats used in the application or
system, including databases and file formats.

- System design:

A description of the overall architecture and components of the application or
system, including diagrams and flowcharts.

- Interface design:

A description of the user interface of the application or system, including
wire-frames and mock-ups.

- Algorithms and code:
  
Detailed descriptions of the algorithms and code used in the application or
system.

Troubleshooting guides
**********************

Troubleshooting guides are a type of technical documentation that provides a
step-by-step process for diagnosing and resolving issues or errors in a software
application or system. The purpose of troubleshooting guides is to help users or
support teams identify and resolve problems as quickly and efficiently as
possible.

Troubleshooting guides typically include the following information:

- Symptoms:

A description of the problem or error that the user is experiencing.

- Causes:

Possible reasons why the problem or error is occurring, including common issues
and errors.

- Solutions:

A step-by-step process for resolving the problem or error, including any
necessary configuration changes or software updates.

- Tips and tricks:

Additional information and best practices for troubleshooting the issue,
including common workarounds and preventative measures.

Security specifications
***********************

Security specifications are a type of technical documentation that describe the
security requirements, guidelines, and procedures for a software application or
system. The purpose of security specifications is to ensure that the application
or system is designed and implemented with security in mind, to protect against
unauthorized access, data breaches, and other security risks.

Security specifications typically include the following information:

- Threat modeling:

A process for identifying potential security threats and vulnerabilities in the
application or system.

- Security requirements:

A list of security requirements for the application or system, including
authentication and authorization, data encryption, and secure communications
protocols.

- Security guidelines:

Best practices and guidelines for ensuring the security of the application or
system, including secure coding practices and regular security audits.

- Incident response procedures:

Procedures for detecting, responding to, and mitigating security incidents,
including incident reporting and escalation procedures.

- Disaster recovery and business continuity procedures:

Procedures for recovering from security incidents and ensuring business
continuity in the event of a disaster.

Technical tutorials
*******************

Technical tutorials are a type of educational content that provide step-by-step
instructions on how to complete a specific task or achieve a particular goal
using technology or software. Technical tutorials can cover a wide range of
topics, including programming languages, software frameworks, tools and
technologies, and best practices.

The purpose of technical tutorials is to provide readers with practical
knowledge and skills that they can use to solve real-world problems and improve
their proficiency in a particular technology or software. Technical tutorials
often include examples and code snippets to help readers understand the topic
being discussed, and may also include screenshots, diagrams, and other visual
aids.

Software development guide
**************************

A software development guide is a comprehensive document that provides guidance
on the entire process of software development, from initial planning and
requirements gathering to deployment and maintenance.

The purpose of a software development guide is to provide a clear and consistent
framework for software development teams to follow, and to ensure that best
practices are followed throughout the software development life cycle. A
software development guide typically includes information on project management
methodologies, software development methodologies, coding standards, testing
practices, deployment and release management, and maintenance and support.

Software development guides are typically created by experienced software
development professionals, including project managers, software architects, and
developers. They are used by software development teams to ensure that everyone
involved in the project is following the same guidelines and procedures, and to
maintain consistency and quality throughout the software development life cycle.

Software development guides can be customized to meet the specific needs of a
particular organization or project, and can be tailored to different development
methodologies and technologies. They are an essential resource for any
organization that develops software and wants to ensure that its software
development processes are efficient, effective, and of high quality.

Features list
*************

A features list is a document or a section within a software product's
documentation that lists all the features that are available in the product. The
purpose of a features list is to provide a comprehensive overview of the
product's capabilities, and to help users understand what the product can and
cannot do.

**Note:** Here one feature means one capability or one functionality of the RCP
component or service, The particle size is relatively small, here features list
is not the list of RCP CB features. For example, features list for RCP user
management are like:

- User management

  - Query users
  - Add one user
  - Delete one user
  - Modify user information

- Role management

  - Query roles
  - Add a role
  - Modify role information
  - Delete role

A features list typically includes a brief description of each feature, as well
as any prerequisites or dependencies required to use the feature. It may also
include information on how to access or use each feature, and any limitations or
restrictions that apply.

Features lists are often included in product documentation, such as user guides
or manuals, and are also commonly found on software vendor websites. They are an
important resource for users who want to learn more about a product's
capabilities, and can help them decide whether a particular product is right for
their needs. They are also useful for product managers and developers who need
to keep track of which features are included in a particular product, and to
ensure that all features are properly documented and supported.

Release notes
*************

Release notes are a document or a section within a software product's
documentation that provides information about the latest release of the
software. The purpose of release notes is to inform users about any changes, bug
fixes, new features, and known issues that are included in the latest version of
the software.

Release notes typically include a brief summary of the changes and improvements
made in the latest release, along with details on how to install or upgrade to
the new version. They may also include a list of known issues or bugs that have
not yet been fixed, along with any workarounds or solutions that are available.

Release notes are an important resource for users who are upgrading to the
latest version of a software product, as they provide a clear overview of what
has changed and what to expect from the new release. They are also useful for
product managers and developers who need to communicate changes and improvements
to their customers or stakeholders.

Release notes may be included in the software product's documentation, or may be
published separately on the software vendor's website or other online platforms.
They are typically updated with each new release of the software product.
